So we saw this phenomenon known as overfitting.
It performed really well on the training data,
but it didn't generalize well enough to perform well on the validation set.
So one of the ways we can prevent
overfitting is by stopping training when we achieve the lowest validation loss.
When we look at those plots from before,
we can see that at first validation loss actually did decrease,
but then it started increasing.
What if we had instead stopped our model here at the best validation loss?
This strategy is called early stopping.
We can implement early stopping in TensorFlow dot keras by using a callback.
A callback is a set of functions to be applied at given stages of
the training process and you can actually pass a list of
these callbacks to the fit method using the callbacks keyword argument.
Here we'll use the early stopping callback,
we'll monitor the validation loss and again it's up to you as
the developer to decide what to monitor and the patients here is also important.
This is how many epochs the model will wait for before fully stopping training.
Here we've set to five,
we need it'll continue to train for another five epochs even if we don't
see an improvement in the validation loss that we're monitoring.
We can also specify a minimum change to be
required to qualify as an improvement by specifying min delta.
This means that if you only are improving by a fraction of a percent,
you might still say, hey,
I want to go ahead and stop it's flattening out anyway.
So here's our updated model.
The model is still the same,
compilation is still the same,
but we're adding this callback into our model.fit command here,
we have callbacks of early stopping that we set here.
Again, I went ahead and train this so we don't all have to sit here and watch
the entire curve and plotting it similarly again.
So this seems maybe like it made some difference,
it's not huge yet remember we stopped nearby to that bottom.
So it just means that we trained for less epochs.
If we actually go back up here,
we can see we set it to a 100 epochs and yet wait a second,
we only train for 10 and that's because it stopped early.
It saw that it wasn't improving anymore.
So instead of getting to a worse validation accuracy,
once it got to its best point, it went ahead and stopped.